Add how to guide for table => div migration (#3252)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/views/table-to-div-migration.adoc

---
title: Table to div layout migration
layout: developerguide
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

NOTE: This is a documentation for the incoming feature in the Jenkins core.
See jira:JENKINS-56109[Change Jenkins configuration UI from tables to divs] for details.

```

> Jenkins core has changed its form layout from 'table' to 'div' as of Jenkins v2.237.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins core will change its form layout from 'table' to 'div' soon.
```

All core taglib's and views were updated in link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/3895[jenkins#3895]
as part of jira:JENKINS-56109[].

For 99% of plugins they do not require any changes at all as they just use the standard jelly tags

> in Jenkins for their form, such as `f:entry`, `f:textbox`, `f:checkbox`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in Jenkins for their forms, such as `f:entry`, `f:textbox`, `f:checkbox`.
```

== Examples of area which may require changes

> Below is some areas that may require you to adjust the form layout or JavaScript in your plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below are some areas that may require you to adjust the form layout or JavaScript in your plugin:
```

> * Adding the td / tr elements directly instead of using the `f:entry` tag, e.g. link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/config-rotator-plugin/pull/2[config-rotator-plugin#2]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adding `td` / `tr` elements directly instead of using the `f:entry` tag, e.g. link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/config-rotator-plugin/pull/2[config-rotator-plugin#2]
```

> * Custom javascript that is brittle to the Jenkins form UI layout, we’ve done our best to introduce shims, to not cause breakage here, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Custom JavaScript that is brittle to the Jenkins form UI layout. We’ve done our best to introduce shims, to not cause breakage here, 
```

but if you have written JavaScript that is reliant on the DOM structure you may need to make adjustments,

> take a look at the JavaScript changes in link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/3895[jenkins#3895].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
take a look at the JavaScript link:changes[jenkins#3895].
```

Author: this suggestion looks broken how about:
```suggestion
take a look at the JavaScript link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/3895[changes in jenkins#3895].
```

Reviewer 2: Clearly I'm unfamiliar with this markup language...

> * Forking jelly taglibs from core and extending them, i.e. link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/multiple-scms-plugin/pull/25[multiple-scms-plugin#25],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Forking jelly taglibs from core and extending them, e.g. link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/multiple-scms-plugin/pull/25[multiple-scms-plugin#25],
```

it would be good to contribute fixes or enhancements to core rather than doing this where possible.

> * Using tables in the plugin for layout, link:https://github.com/jfrog/jenkins-artifactory-plugin/pull/266[jenkins-artifactory-plugin#266], link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/matrix-auth-plugin/pull/83[matrix-auth-plugin#83]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Using tables in the plugin for layout, link:https://github.com/jfrog/jenkins-artifactory-plugin/pull/266[jenkins-artifactory-plugin#266], link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/matrix-auth-plugin/pull/83[matrix-auth-plugin#83], ...
```

Author: not sure what you mean by this?

Reviewer 2: It's a complaint about a fragment of the form `Using foo for blah, example1, example2` it isn't a sentence and as structured doesn't work. It might work as `Using foo for blah. example1, example2, ...`. There might be other ways to fix it.

Author: ```suggestion
* Using tables in the plugin for layout, e.g. link:https://github.com/jfrog/jenkins-artifactory-plugin/pull/266[jenkins-artifactory-plugin#266] and link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/matrix-auth-plugin/pull/83[matrix-auth-plugin#83].
```

== Maintaining support for tables and div layout

There is a jelly property set on Jenkins instances that use div's for form layout called `divBasedFormLayout`,

> you can use this to adapt your plugin UI based on the presence of this property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so you can adapt your plugin UI based on the presence of this property.
```

Jelly example:

[source,xml]
----
<d:taglib uri="local">
  <d:tag name="blockWrapper">
        <j:choose>
            <j:when test="${divBasedFormLayout}">
                <div>
                    <d:invokeBody/>
                </div>
            </j:when>
            <j:otherwise>
                <table style="width:100%">
                    <d:invokeBody/>
                </table>
            </j:otherwise>
        </j:choose> 
    </d:tag>
<d:taglib>

<local:blockWrapper>
...
</local:blockWrapper>
----

> This will use a table on Jenkins instances that don't have `divBasedFormLayout` and will use a div when it is set,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will use a table on Jenkins instances that don't have `divBasedFormLayout` and will use a div when it is set.
```

> _Note: you will likely need more tags to adapt the 'tr' and 'td' tags to divs see link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/multiple-scms-plugin/pull/25[multiple-scms-plugin#25] for a full example._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Note: You will likely need more tags to adapt the `tr` and `td` tags to divs see link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/multiple-scms-plugin/pull/25[multiple-scms-plugin#25] for a full example._
```
